Let's add one more tool to our knowledge and re-act and re-act 16 which was a new version of re-act
introduce something called error boundaries and Isold the problem that re-act had previously which was
if there were some sort of an air within a component for whatever reason there wasn't a graceful way
to handle it on the next grand jury you'd get all these cryptic errors and things just wouldn't work
out nicely for a user.
You want to make sure that even if a part of your componentry breaks you can still have a nice UI experience
maybe a piece of Texas says something where Bronk but not have the app break.
So in this video we're going to talk about air boundaries and apply it to our friends up.
Let's get started.
The first thing I want to do is in the component I'm going to add a new file and we'll call this component
error boundary and just a reminder you do need re-asked 16 or higher for this to work.
So make sure that in your package file that you have the right version of re-act now in here we can
do our regular import re-act
component and we're importing from the re-act package.
And then finally we have a class of error boundary that extends the Riak component
and within here we have the constructor
and again we call supre here.
And just so we have access to the prop's will have to within the constructor have the proper sprad better.
And then finally for this state we're going to create a property called has air.
And for now it's going to be false.
And let's also not forget to export default error boundaries so we have access to it and have our default
render here that will return for us.
Hmm what should it return.
Well ideally with this air boundary component we can wrap the component or we can wrap a component such
as the cardless component with an air boundary component and if the Carlists component fails we can
catch it in the air boundary.
I know this is a little bit hard to follow Riak does have really good documentation on this so you can
always read up on it later.
But stick with me.
Trust me it's going to make sense.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to check if this state DOT has air is equal to true.
So if there is some sort of an error then we want to return this default state of How Can We gracefully
display something to the user that makes it meaningful to them even though we weren't able to display
what we intended originally.
In our case we can just say that we have an H1 of oops that is not good for the user to see.
So we're saying here that if for some reason there's an air we're going to just spit out an H won tag
otherwise.
And we can just do a return here.
We're going to say that this stop prop's dot children will render again remember because children will
be anything that's in-between air boundary.
In our case is probably probably going to be the cardless so rende of their children whatever's inside
of air boundary.
Otherwise Rander H-1.
Now how are we going to be able to change this has air well with re-act 16 and we have a new life cycle
method that was introduced and it's called component did catch and this component did catch is kind
of like the try catch block in javascript if anything heir's out Ill run this lifecycle hook and this
lifecycle hook actually gets couple of parameters.
That is the error and the info.
But in our case we just want to say that that this starts that state is going to now if this component
errors out is going to have has error equal to true.
So if that ever gets triggered were going to render the H-1 tag.
All right.
Let's save and let's go to APT.
Yes let's import to our air boundaries
from our components.
And now we can use this.
Let's use it over here for the card list.
So if something goes on with the Carlist we want to have some sort of graceful exit boundary.
So we'll say air boundary and because we're rendering this thought props are children free wrapped like
this.
And nothing goes on it will still render cardless.
So let's save Let's see if we made any mistakes.
So far so good.
Let's go back to our app and.
All right let's look at the console.
Nowhere this year if we refresh Nowhere's here if I type stuff Nowhere's that's good.
Now with this air boundary if anything in the Carlist fails it's going to catch it and display our error
message.
So let's see what I mean.
If I go into card list here and now in here if we say if for now we'll just say true.
We're going to assume that cardless was in there so we can do that by saying throw new air was say
if we save this everything is still working.
If I go back you see that I'm still getting the air it says on cut error.
No.
And at the bottom it says the above error occurred in the Carlists component reacts we'll try to recreate
this componentry from scratch using the air Bhandari you provided airborne.
OK that's great but I still see the air.
And that is because we're running right now in development for create react up.
They want to show us whenever there's an error in our component air boundaries are really useful when
you put your apps into production where you don't have this detailed logs of what airs you have your
users are never going to see this.
So if I refresh you really fast do you see that right over here.
How has said oops that is not good.
Oops.
That is not good.
So in production users are going to see that.
But for our case the intended behavior for creators locked up in development is to show us the errors
but with air boundaries we have that extra safety during production.
That's it for now.
I'll see in the next one probably.